# Climate Claim Analysis

The article being evaluated (EverythingClimate, 2020b) postulates that hurricane frequency is not correlated to climate change. It suggests that hurricane frequency has been on the decline as has hurricane severity. The article also discusses the theory behind their claim. It states that warmer ocean water is not the only factor that impacts hurricane abundance. They discuss how global warming is increasing wind shear in locations where hurricanes grow. Wind shear has deleterious effects on the formation of hurricanes and according to this article negates the impact of warming ocean water on hurricane formation. The article also states that there is simply not enough data on storms going back far enough for long term trends in tropical storms for any concrete conclusions to be made. 

This article is not found in a scientific journal and therefore cannot be considered highly credible. None of the article’s listed sources are from peer-reviewed journals either. Instead the article obtains its information from news sources such as USA today. Furthermore, the site itself, in its about section (EverythingClimate, 2020a), misuses basic scientific terminology, suggesting that there is very little scientific rigor to the information being published. The site is full of articles containing climate change denying rhetoric despite this article seeming to assume that changes in ocean temperature are occurring. This hypocrisy suggests that the articles are being produced to further some goal instead of to simply provide accurate information. All of this indicates that the source is intended to persuade instead of educate and is highly biased. 

The once source that the article uses that appears legitimate is an IPCC interim report (Seneviratne et al., 2012). Upon further inspection of the document, it appears that the authors of the article were correct in their assessment that there are few historical sources for long-term tropical cyclone activity. However, the document also states clearly that it is likely that intensity and frequency of tropical cyclones has been increasing in the past 50-100 years. Furthermore, the report discusses evidence from both those papers that suggest an increase in intense tropical cyclones and those that suggest that no change will occur. The report also states that it is that it is more likely than not that anthropogenic factors have contributed to an increase in the frequency of very intense tropical cyclones. For the future, the report states that while frequency of storms will likely remain the same or decline with global warming, the most intense storms will, more likely than not, increase in frequency. The EverythingClimate article cherry-picks statements from this report that suit its narrative. In this way its argument is highly flawed.  

Beyond the IPCC reports the literature provides a similar prediction of increased proportion of high intensity tropical cyclones and a higher rainfall seen in tropical cyclones as well as attributing the intensity and rainfall of recent hurricanes to climate change (Walsh et al., 2019; Reed et al., 2020). None of these papers suggest that there will be an increase in the frequency of hurricanes as this article seems to be attempting to refute. In this sense the article is using the logical fallacy of the strawman in order to refute the points of scientists concerned about the impact of global warming on tropical storms.  Furthermore, the article uses very specific examples such as Florida instead of looking at overall trends or climate models.   

## Bibliography 

EverythingClimate, 2020a. *About*. [online] Everything Climate. Available at: <https://everythingclimate.org/about/> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].

EverythingClimate, 2020b. *Climate Change is Increasing the Strength and Frequency of Hurricanes*. [online] Everything Climate. Available at: <https://everythingclimate.org/climate-change-is-increasing-the-strength-and-frequency-of-hurricanes/> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].

Reed, K.A., Stansfield, A.M., Wehner, M.F. and Zarzycki, C.M., 2020. Forecasted attribution of the human influence on Hurricane Florence. *Science Advances*, [online] 6(1). Available at: <https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/6/1/eaaw9253> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].

Seneviratne, S.I., Nicholls, N., Easterling, D., Goodess, C.M., Kanae, S., Kossin, J., Luo, Y., Marengo, J., McInnes, K., Rahimi, M., Reichstein, M., Sorteberg, A., Vera, C., Zhang, X., Rusticucci, M., Semenov, V., Alexander, L.V., Allen, S., Benito, G., Cavazos, T., Clague, J., Conway, D., Della-Marta, P.M., Gerber, M., Gong, S., Goswami, B.N., Hemer, M., Huggel, C., van den Hurk, B., Kharin, V.V., Kitoh, A., Tank, A.M.G.K., Li, G., Mason, S., McGuire, W., van Oldenborgh, G.J., Orlowsky, B., Smith, S., Thiaw, W., Velegrakis, A., Yiou, P., Zhang, T., Zhou, T. and Zwiers, F.W., 2012. Changes in Climate Extremes and their Impacts on the Natural Physical Environment. In: C.B. Field, V. Barros, T.F. Stocker and Q. Dahe, eds. *Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation*. [online] Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.pp.109–230. Available at: <https://www.cambridge.org/core/product/identifier/CBO9781139177245A030/type/book_part> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].

Walsh, K.J.E., Camargo, S.J., Knutson, T.R., Kossin, J., Lee, T.-C., Murakami, H. and Patricola, C., 2019. Tropical cyclones and climate change. *Tropical Cyclone Research and Review*, 8(4), pp.240–250.
